Partial statistics docs and settings (#22087)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/v25.4/create-statistics.md

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
CREATE STATISTICS rides_extremes_stats FROM rides USING EXTREMES;
~~~

This creates partial statistics on all single-column prefixes of non-inverted indexes in the `rides` table by scanning only the highest and lowest index values, providing updated statistics without performing a full table scan.

You can also create extremes statistics on specific columns, as long as [the column is indexed]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cost-based-optimizer.md %}#partial-statistics):

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
CREATE STATISTICS city_extremes_stats ON city FROM rides USING EXTREMES;
~~~

### Create partial statistics on specific data

{% include_cached new-in.html version="v25.4" %} To create [partial statistics]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cost-based-optimizer.md %}#partial-statistics) on a specific column and values matching specific conditions, ensure the column is indexed:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
CREATE INDEX ON rides (start_time);
~~~

> Partial statistics are particularly valuable for timestamp columns where workloads commonly access the most recent data:

Reviewer: With the WHERE clause, you can specify arbitrary predicates, so the "recency" argument isn't needed here (unlike for USING EXTREMES). Any range of values that was recently updated (even in the middle of the index) can have partial stats collected here.

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
CREATE STATISTICS high_value_rides_stats ON revenue FROM rides WHERE revenue > 50;
~~~

> This creates partial statistics covering only high-value rides.

Reviewer 2: clarify the reference:

```suggestion
This statement creates partial statistics that cover only high-value rides.
```
